AntennaTracker

Mike McCauley
2014-03-05

This is the ardupilot AntennaTracker

This software, combined with appropriate hardware, can be used to cause a
high-gain antenna to track a mavlink equipped air or ground vehicle in real
time, providing higher quality radio links over longer distances than a
stationary or omnidirectional antenna.

AntennaTracker can be a stationary installation on the ground or can be
mobile, mounted on a vehicle, and moving at the same time as the vehicle it is
tracking, such as on a pursuit vehicle, etc.

Antenna Tracker Hardware

The software works with:

- Alt-Azimuth mounted antenna tracker, equipped with 2 servos: one for Azimuth
(also called bearing or yaw) -180 to 180 degrees and one for Altitude (also
called elevation, or pitch) -90 degrees (straight down) to 90 degrees
(straight up). I used an Eagle Tree Antenna Pan-Tilt.

- Ardupilot compatible processor such as 
-- Flymaple
-- others tested?
and with a radio or wired link to a source of mavlink messages with the
tracked vehicle's position data. 

A suitable power supply is also needed, possibly battery powered. In the case
of Flymaple, the onboard 5V regulator is not able to drive large servos
without causing large amounts of electrical noise in the processor, so you
would probably need an external 5V regulated supply

Theory of Operation

AntennaTracker receives real-time GPS position reports from the vehicle being
tracked (in the form of GLOBAL_POSITION_INT messages sent by mavlink radio
connection or possibly by hardwired serial connection). AntennaTracker also
knows its own current position. Based on these 2 sets of coordinates, it
calculates the magnetic bearing and elevation to the vehicle. It then moves
the tracker servos until the antenna (and the AntennaTracker processor) are
aligned with the desired bearing and elevation. At this stage, the antenna is
pointed straight at the tracked vehicle. As the vehicle (and possibly the
antenna mount itself) move around, the servos are continually moved to track
the vehicle.

AntennaTracker currently only supports closed loop feedback to position the
antenna. This requires that the AntennaTracker processor (including
accelerometers and compass) be mounted on the moving part of the antenna
tracker hardware. The servos are moved until the yaw and pitch of the processor
(and therefore of the antenna itself) matches the bearing and elevation to the
tracked vehicle.

How does AntennaTracker know where it is on the earth?

- If the tracker is equipped with a GPS and it has had a good 3D fix, the most
recent good GPS fix is used.

- If the tracker is equipped with a GPS and it has lost its fix, the most
recent good GPS fix is used.

- If there is no good GPS fix since startup (either because there is no GPS
equipped or because the GPS has not yet got a fix), the most recently set HOME
location is used.

- If no HOME location has ever been set in the tracker, 0.0 Latitude, 0.0
Longitude, 0 Altitude are used (which is probably not very helpful)

How does AntennaTracker get GLOBAL_POSITION_INT messages from the tracked
vehicle?

mavproxy, when it runs the tracker module, intercepts all GLOBAL_POSITION_INT
messages received from its master vehicle, and sends them to the tracker. It
knows how to connect to the tracker with the set port and set baudrate
commands, for example to connect by a USB-Serial  radio, such as the 3DR Radio
on port /dev/ttyUSB0:

(after starting mavproxy)
module load tracker
tracker set port /dev/ttyUSB0
tracker set baudrate 57600
tracker start

Mounting

The AntennaTracker processor must be mounted on the moving (ie the rotating,
tilting) part of the antenna tracker hardware. Just how you do this will
depend on your exact hardware, but if the processor is mounted in anything
other than the default orientation (ie with the processor default 'forward'
direction pointing in the direction the antenna points, you will have to
configure AHRS_ORIENTATION in the AntennaTracker configuration to suit your
mechanical mounting arrangements.

In my case, I used a Flymaple with AHRS_ORIENTATION set to 1 (Yaw45). The
Flymaple was mounted on the antenna tracker with component side up and the
green pin headers horizontal and perpendicular to the antenna beam (See
pictures???).

Configuration

It is vitally important that your AntennaTracker be properly configured for the
mounting, servos and other hardware in your tracker. Unless you do this IT
WILL PROBABLY NOT WORK AS EXPECTED. CAUTION: It might even oscillate or flap
around. It might even damage itself.

AntennaTracker (like other ardupilot software such as ArduPlane, ArduRover
etc) has configuration values that control and tailor its operation, and which
are stored in EEPROM on the processor. The configuration is restored from
EEPROM every time the processsor starts.

You can use MissionPlanner, mavproxy or apm_planner or other mavlink compatible
software to check and change the configuration of your AntennaTracker.

You will almost certainly have to change the following configuration items to
suit, and possibly others besides:

AHRS_ORIENTATION
RC1_MIN
RC1_MAX
RC1_REV
RC2_MIN
RC2_MAX
RC2_REV
PITCH2SRV_P
PITCH2SRV_I
PITCH2SRV_D
YAW2SRV_P
YAW2SRV_I
YAW2SRV_D

(more info here about how to find the right values when the setup commands are
available)

You can find the complete set of configuration items I used for my Flymaple
tracker mounted on an Eagle Tree tracker WHERE?????

Compass Calibration

AntennaTracker uses its internal magnetic compass to determine where North is
and therefore where to point for each bearing to the target vehicle. (On other
ardupilot vehicles, the yaw is also calibrated by the current GPS track. This
is not possible for AntennaTracker, so the compass is the only possible source
for absolute bearing)

The compass magnetometer is exquisitely sensitive to nearby magnetic fields from
wires, metal fittings, servos, radios etc. Therefore is it VITALLY ESSENTIAL that you
calibrate the compass. Further, it must be calibrated outdoors, while installed
in situ in the tracker, with all other equipment installed, fastened down and
ready to operate.

Failure to calibrate correctly will result in the tracker pointing in the
wrong direction, or the azimuth/yaw and elevation/pitch drifting.

Use Mission Planner to calibrate the tracker:
- Assemble the completed tracker, complete and ready to operate.
- Power up the tracker
- Connect to it with Mission Planner
- On Mission Planner->INITIAL SETUP->Compass, click on Live Calibration
- click on OK
- rotate the complete antenna tracker assembly around, in 3 dimensions, making sure to
rotate the tracker to every possible orientation in the 1 minute you have
available. DON'T just move the yaw and pitch motors around. You will probably have to
pick the whole thing up.
- At the end of the minute, Mission Planner will update AntennaTrackers compass offsets.

Leveling

Since AntennaTracker uses its internal accelerometers (amongst other things)
to determine the current elevation/pitch of the antenna, it is also important
to 'level' the AntennaTracker before use so the accelerometers are
calibrated. Failure to do this will result in the antenna constantly pointing
a bit high or a bit low compared to the tracked vehicle.

You can do this by connecting to the AntennaTracker with mavproxy and issuing
these commands:

disarm
  - manually move the antenna so the antenna is level and pointing at 0 degrees elevation
    i.e. at the horizon
level
  - wait a minute without disturbing the antenna position
arm throttle
  - this rearms the servos, allowing the antenna to move

Operation

<more here>

After powering up AntennaTracker, it may take up to 1 minute while it
automatically calibrates the compass before it points in the expected
direction. Moving the tracker around will speed up this process.

How to set the HOME location

If your AntennaTracker is not equipped with a GPS, you can still use it to
track vehicles. First you will have to tell AntennaTracker where it is on the
ground by setting its HOME position.

Connect to AntennaTracker with mavproxy

module load map
 - the map will appear.
 - Zoom and drag the map until you can see the location where
   your AntennaTracker is located
 - Click the mouse on the location of the antenna
wp sethome

AntennaTracker will now remember this as its HOME location whenever it is
started.

Simulating an antenna tracker
-----------------------------

To run a full antenna tracker simulation with a simulated APM:Plane as
the vehicle, cd to the ArduPlane directory and run this:

  ../Tools/autotest/sim_arduplane.sh -T --aircraft test

The -T flag tells sim_arduplane.sh to start an entenna tracker
simulator and also start a virtual antenna tracker in a window.

To start the antenna tracker running run "tracker start" in the
mavproxy window.

To then connect to your antenna tracker with mavproxy you would run:

  mavproxy.py --master tcp:127.0.0.1:5770

then you can configure it as needed.
